# Anolis distichus spatial variation


### Ecological distribution modeling

- **distichus-occurences-curations.r** - downloads occurrence records for *A. distichus* generally, as well as for lineages identified by MacGuigan et al. (2017), and spatially thins them 

- **Process-environmental-variables.r** - Loads previously downloaded environmental variable raster files from CHELSA and MODIS database and downloads elevational data from SRTM database. Then, processes them and writes new rasters to be used for modeling.

- **Create-M.r** - Includes a function to designate "M", or the calibration area, and runs it for all of the datasets generated by **distichus-occurences-curations.r**, generating shapefiles. It then masks environmental variables by the Ms estimated in the script and outputs the new masked variables to the same directory. 

- **Explore-environmental-variables.r** - Tests for collinearity among environmental variables. This is an important step before running Maxent.

- **Raster-PCA.r** - performs principal component analysis on environmental variable rasters using RStoolbox function `rasterPCA`.

Note: most of the scripts used for ecological distribution modeling were adapted from code written for Nuñez-Penichet et al. (2020), present in this [GitHub repository](https://github.com/townpeterson/vespa).

## References

MacGuigan, D. J., A. J. Geneva, and R. E. Glor. 2017. A genomic assessment of species boundaries and hybridization in a group of highly polymorphic anoles (*distichus* species complex). Ecol Evol 7:3657–3671.

Nuñez-Penichet, C., L. Osorio-Olvera, V. H. Gonzalez, M. E. Cobos, L. Jiménez, D. A. DeRaad, A. Alkishe, R. G. Contreras-Díaz, A. Nava-Bolaños, K. Utsumi, U. Ashraf, A. Adeboje, A. T. Peterson, and J. Soberon. 2021. Geographic potential of the world’s largest hornet, *Vespa mandarinia* Smith (Hymenoptera: Vespidae), worldwide and particularly in North America. PeerJ 9:e10690.
